[Crowd cheering]
[Man] Joining us for
the toss of the coin,
the president of the United States.
[Man 2] Mister president,
will you please toss the coin?
[Ronald Regan] It is tails.
[Crowd cheering]
[Man 1] San Francisco has won the toss.
- You can elect to kick...
- [Man 3] We want the ball.
[Man 1] You want the ball?
Which goal will you defend?
Will you put your backs
to the goal, please?
[Announcer] Joe Montana
joins his teammates on the field.
Super bowl xix, the Miami dolphins,
and the San Francisco 49ers.
The best combined records of any two teams
to ever meet in a super bowl.
And Joe Montana...
They talk of the cool of Dan Marino.
[Kurt Warner] Super bowl xix.
Second quarter.
Joe Montana steps
to the line of scrimmage,
drops back to throw, and then...
[Announcer] Montana in trouble
and Doug betters covers him quickly
at the 42-yard line.
[Announcer 2] You feel pretty good,
then all of a sudden,
the pocket starts to cave in.
[Kurt] Now this might seem like a failure.
A mistake.
But of all the characteristics
needed to be an all-pro quarterback,
this one is rarely talked about:
The ability to stay in the pocket,
to stay calm and collected as a wall
of humanity collapses around you.
The courage to stand your ground
and take the hit.
And then have the will to get back up,
and do it all over again.
Drop back, settle,
deliver the perfect throw.
[Announcer] And another record has fallen.
Another one to Joe Montana.
[Announcer 2] Falling all over the place.
They really put on a terrific show,
particularly offensively and...
[Announcer 1] A little roll to the right.
Montana. Fires a shot... [fades out]
How much longer?
I want to play some atari.
Kufi?
[Kurt] Ever since I saw Joe Montana
become the mvp of that super bowl
and break his all-time pass record,
I knew I wanted to be that guy.
Over a million athletes play high school
football every year in america,
each with a dream of their own.
Only about five percent of them
make it to college ball.
And only one percent of those
get drafted to the NFL.
Most don't stay in the league
for more than three years.
Most are not quarterbacks.
Only a select few will ever play
in the super bowl
and each year,
there's only one mvp of that game.
So, by all accounts, my dream,
my story is impossible.
That's just the kind of story this is.
- [Crowd cheering]
- All right.
All right, boys. All right, boys.
Let's do this.
Uh, trips right, 70-wide special.
On one, ready.
[Announcer] And that will bring on Kurt
Warner, the fifth year senior,
making his first start.
Remember, folks,
he's sat on the bench for four years
even though he was highly recruited
out of high school.
Blue, 60, hut!
[Announcer] Warner takes the snap.
A strong interior rush.
Leveled by middle linebacker Cole banks.
A punishing hit.
[Indistinct yelling]
Whoo!
Get set, get set, get set!
Blue, 60, hut!
[Grunting]
He's flushed out of the pocket,
scrambling to his left.
[Coach] Stay in the pocket!
[Announcer] He's running out of real
estate and throws the ball across his body
towards the corner of the end zone.
- Touchdown! Touchdown, panthers!
- [Laughing]
How you like that, coach?
You still didn't stay in the damn pocket.
Yeah, you're welcome.
Kicking game! Move it!
[Announcer indistinct]
Ineligible, downfield. On...
[Tape rewinding]
- [Sighs]
- [Man] Okay.
I'm gonna wear this one.
You take this one. All right?
No, no. I'm staying here.
I got work to do.
Work? Man, you can hardly call that work.
How you gonna make a highlight reel
with no highlights? Huh?
- You only started two games. Just sayin'.
- I have highlights.
And who you are you
going to send that to?
- Scouts. Agents.
- [Chuckles]
You really are delusional, huh?
Look, the NFL's not gonna draft some noob
who's been sitting on the bench for four
years at a i-aa school in Iowa.
It's madness.
Come on. We're going out.
I'm never gonna wear this.
["Wink" by Neal McCoy playing]
[Kurt] Hudnutt, how do you
listen to this music? It is garbage.
[Hudnutt] Okay,
have a good old time. Let's go.
[Song continues]
Can we get two buds?
- Thank you.
- Okay.
- I'm gonna make a lap.
- You do that. Have fun.
[Woman] Whoo!
[Cheenng]
Blue, 80, hut!
[Grunting]
No, no, no, no.
Stay in the pocket.
Yeah!
- [Grunts]
- What did I say?
What did I say?
[Whistle blowing]
- To stay in the pocket, coach.
- Bingo, hotshot.
[Karl ravech] Hey, hello, and welcome
everybody to sportscenter.
I'm Karl ravech,
with a very special welcome
to the newest member
of our sportscenter family,
that's Steve Levy.
[Steve] The boomer and Bruce show
of the New York jets
opened up well off-Broadway in Pittsburgh
against the steelers
who already had a preseason...
Hud, I'm gonna need
to ask you a favor
and I'm gonna appreciate you
not laughing at me too much.
Can't wait to hear this.
I need you to teach
me how to dance. Ahem.
[Chuckles]
What, like-like...
Dance, like-like line dance?
Like line dancing, barn dancing,
- all the dancing...
- [Laughing]
Oh, man, this is going to be great.
This about that girl, ain't it?
That's none of your business.
["I like it, I love it"
by Tim McGraw playing]
You have no idea
how happy this makes me.
- Yeah, I do.
- [Laughs] You look good, man.
Oh, wow.
- Hey, uh, bartender.
- Yeah?
Hey, uh, uh, uh,
can you play a line...
Uh, uh, not a line dance.
A barn dance for me?
[Man on pa]
All right, it's a barn dance. Barn dance.
[Man on song]
Grab your partner, do-si-do.
Excuse me, cowboy.
I'm going to take this one.
- Thank you, very much.
- Oh, about time.
[Music playing]
- You don't look like a cowboy.
- That's 'cause I'm not.
- What are you then?
- I'm a football player.
My name is Kurt... Warner. What's yours?
Nope. Not yet.
Wha... that hardly seems fair.
I mean, I just gave you my name.
- You're not gonna give me yours?
- No.
Well, what am I supposed to do,
just guess?
Okay, all right, um... Abby? Abigail.
- [Laughs]
- Gail, uh, Helen, Isabelle,
Jacqueline, Beatrice.
[Laughs]
You're supposed to be the other way.
Yeah, I know.
I just like this view a lot more.
She won't tell me her name. So...
You move real good on that dance floor.
- Well, that makes one of us.
- [Chuckles]
Thank you... actually it's the...
Yeah. Okay.
- [Chuckles]
- What? I like what I like.
So, football? Tell me about that.
How do you mean?
What do you want to know?
Well, you defined yourself as a sport,
so, it must be pretty important to you.
[Chuckles]
Hell, I don't know.
I just love it.
Well, I like a man who knows
why he loves something, so...
[Chuckles]
Okay. Okay, how about this?
I'll answer your question,
but first you gotta answer one of mine.
Uh... what exactly
is miss August over there?
[Chuckles, coughs] That is, um...
- That's a tight fitting jeans contest.
- Oh, is it really? [Chuckles]
First Thursday of every month.
It's the first time I won.
- Congratulations.
- This is so embarrassing. [Chuckling]
Um, so football, seriously.
You give me an honest answer
and I'll give you my name.
[Clears throat] Okay.
So, football was the most important thing
my pops taught me before he...
Uh, left.
I mean, he's back in my life now but,
you know, back then it was tough,
and, uh, we always,
uh, you know, struggled.
Me and my mom, my brother.
Never had enough.
And I wanted more.
I wanted to make something of my life.
And football, um...
Is just like the only thing I've ever
really been good at. So...
Just feels like more
than a game to me.
As long as I have
a ball in my hands,
then I feel like everything's
gonna be all right.
Is that honest enough for you?
["Keeper of the stars"
by Tracy bird playing]
You know, I normally hate country music,
but I kinda like this song.
[Chuckles] Well,
I hate sports.
- So, guess it'll never work between us.
- I suppose so. What a shame.
What do you like about it?
I don't know.
I guess that it's different.
Kinda like you.
I'm Brenda.
Well, it's a pleasure to meet you, Brenda.
- [Bell rings]
- [Bartender] Last call.
[Soft chuckle] And I gotta go.
Gotta go? You gotta go go?
Hey. Hey, come on, wait a second.
I mean, is it something that I said?
Is it something that I did?
Can I at least get your phone number?
Trust me, you don't want it.
What? [Chuckles]
Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.
Why wouldn't I? Why wouldn't I?
Why wouldn't I want your number?
[Sighs] Look, there's a few things
you need to know about me.
I'm divorced and I got two kids.
So, if I never see you again,
I totally understand.
[Door opens]
[Engine starts]
- But I don't want to.
- Okay, just one bite for mama.
- One bite. Come on. Okay, sweetheart.
- [Groans]
- I don't want any more.
- [Brenda] Yeah. I'm still...
- [Girl] Can I have peanut butter and j?
- Well, I'm making, I'm making the...
The jam... the jelly one first, honey.
I need you to eat just a...
Just tiny little bit more.
- Mama.
- Oh. Over here, baby.
- [Girl] Over here. Over here.
- [Brenda] Oh.
- Is it broken?
- Broken, mama.
Okay, baby. Mama will fix that
in just a minute.
- [Babbles]
- No, Jesse, not for you.
But can you just have a few more bites
of your applesauce, please, sweetheart?
[Babbles]
- [Knocking at door]
- Mom, can you get that?
[Knocking continues]
- [Exhales]
- [Gasps]
Hey.
I didn't mean to scare you. It's Kurt,
from the bar last night.
- I-I knocked on the front door but...
- [Stammers]
[Sighs] This was a bad idea.
- [Brenda] Okay.
- [Jesse] Okay. Okay, okay.
Okay, okay. Okay.
[Brenda giggles] Mom?
Mom? Mom, help.
- Hey. What's going on, little...
- Come on.
Oh. Uh, yeah, hey.
Am I coming in?
- It's-it's broken.
- Oh, it's broken?
What, uh, what's... what's broken?
Oh, the radio's broken. Okay.
Oh, we're going to the bathroom? Okay.
Broken radio.
Oh, well. You're missing a battery.
That's why we're in the bathroom.
Look at that.
All right. There we go.
["Fishin' in the dark" playing]
Country? They got you too, huh?
Lay down.
Okay.
There you go.
J“ you and me go
fishin' in the dark j“
j“ lying on our backs
and counting the stars j“
j“ where the cool grass grows j"
j“ down by the river
in the full moon light j“
j“ we'll be fallin' in love
in the middle of the night j“
j“ just movin' slow j“
you know,
maybe country ain't so bad after all.
[Song continues]
- What's your name, little man?
- Zack.
Mm. That's a good name.
My name's Kurt.
- [Imitates car engine]
- [Chuckles]
- You like trucks?
- Black trucks. Driver.
Oh, you want to
be a truck driver, huh?
A black truck driver.
Uh, what he means
is he wants to drive a black truck.
Right. Uh, uh, hey, I'm-i'm
-I'm Kurt.
- I'm here for Brenda.
- I figured.
Othennise I'd be, you know,
calling the police.
[Chuckles] Yeah.
I'm Jenny Jo. The mom.
- Nice to meet you.
- Kind of you to fix the radio.
It's my pleasure.
- Brenda, is that the guy? He's cute.
- [Sighs]
- Mom, can you please just...
- And he's so nice.
- I know. Can... now, you can go.
- Yes.
- Thank you.
- Uh, radio's fixed.
Thanks. Um, we keep one
in every room in the house.
It-it helps Zack.
Look, can I just be blunt?
Is there another option?
- How do you know where I live?
- The bartender at the bar.
- And, why are you here?
- Well, I wanted to meet your kids.
I mean, you seemed so passionate
about 'em last night.
And I also wanted to give you this.
[Sighs] Look, I have to get Zack
to physical therapy. So...
- Physical therapy?
- [Chuckles]
He's legally blind, and...
He's on his own journey.
I hadn't really noticed that.
Hey, it was really
nice to meet you, Zack.
I'll see you around.
Hey.
My number.
So maybe call the next time?
Where's your car?
I walked.
From uni? That's like three miles.
Oh, yeah.
Totally worth it.
[Soft chuckle]
[Indistinct chattering]
[Whistle blows]
- [Coach] Let's go!
- [Indistinct chattering]
Come on, Tanner.
Doubles, doubles. Let's go.
Set!
[Grunting]
[Indistinct chattering]
No! No!
[Whistle blows]
Punt! Tanner, come here.
What are you doing? First down is 25.
Your job is to move the chains.
Come on, boys.
We've done this a thousand times before.
Hey, coach.
Put me in and I can win for you.
- Come on. Coach, come on.
- [Man] Uni on three. One, two, three.
[Team] Uni!
[Coach] You're back on the bench
for the same reason
you sat on that bench for four years.
[Kurt] What is your problem with me,
coach?
Want me to sum it up for you,
why you're such a tragedy?
- You don't stay in the pocket.
- What?
You got the talent, loads of it,
but when things get hard, you bail.
You run from adversity.
You don't trust your team or my playbook.
- [Sighs]
- You don't deserve to play in the game.
Coach, ten more games
and my dream is gone.
I've been working my whole life
for this, please.
You need to start thinking about life
after football, son.
[Stammers]
Respectfully, you are wrong, coach.
I'm not gonna quit.
'Cause that's not what leaders do.
I just need to know
how to get on that field.
Blue, 80, hut!
[Grunting]
- [Man] Yeah!
- Again.
[Grunting]
[Man] Loser!
You can throw,
but you cannot leave the pocket.
You want your shot?
You take the pain.
Hurry up!
Blue, 80, hut!
[Grunting]
[Coach] Oh, no, no, no, no, no.
Don't you fumble my football.
- [Coughing]
- You hold onto my football.
Again!
- [Grunting]
- Again.
I said again.
- [Man] Get up, Kurt.
How many more times
are we gonna do this, coach?
As many times as I say.
Who else wants to kill Kurt?
- I do.
- Hudnutt, you're on offense.
I'll switch for this, though, baby.
Somebody give me a purple Jersey. Come on!
[Phone ringing]
- Hello?
- [Kurt] Hey, there.
I'm startin'. Next week.
It's Kurt, by the way. Warner.
You get my messages?
- Yeah. All of 'em.
- See? I called first. That's good, right?
What do you say?
Monday night, let's go on a date.
What are we gonna do? Walk?
Is that a yes?
'Cause it sounds like a yes.
I think you're trying to say yes.
[Horn honking]
- What are you doing?
- Got us a ride.
Kurt, I have kids.
You should've called first.
I did call. You hung up on me, don't you
remember?
[Chuckling] Oh, god, you're insane.
I saw that smile.
Yep.
Hey, kids...
[Kurt]
You ever been out here before?
- [Brenda] No. It's real pretty.
- Yeah.
Real peaceful, too.
It's one of my favorite places to come.
I dig your tattoo.
Yeah? Semper fidelis.
It's the motto of—-
for the marines, yeah, yeah.
I saw the pictures on your mantle.
When I was maybe 12, after church,
this woman comes up to me and says,
"there's something special
about you, Brenda.
God is gonna do something great with you."
And... I had the audacity...
To believe her.
So... [stammers]
I had this dream of being a marine,
and marrying a marine,
and having little marine children,
and god, country, and corps all the way.
So, I signed up right outta high school.
Wow.
Then, I met Brad.
A perfect marine.
Whirlwind romance, marriage, and...
Zack was born a year later.
- And what happened to Brad?
- [Brenda breathes deeply]
[Scoffs]
He cheated on me when I was
eight months pregnant with Jesse.
- Oh, what?
- So, um, yeah.
I have some trust issues.
- Was Zack born blind?
- No, he wasn't.
I got this call from Brad
when Zack was four months old.
He said, "he's breathing funny."
And I still remember
the panic in his voice.
And I rushed to the hospital, where...
We were told his brain was swelling
and that he'd be lucky
to make it through the night.
And they had no idea
what was wrong, 'cause...
[Scoffs]
'Cause Brad didn't tell us,
not for 24 hours, that...
[Sniffles]
He accidentally dropped Zack.
On his head. In the tub.
Could've been different, you know,
if he just told the truth.
[Sighs] I remember...
Praying, and praying,
and begging god
to just save my baby boy.
So, the doctor told me
he'd never walk, and yet...
That he'd never talk, and...
Now, I can't get him to stop.
That he'd never be a black truck driver.
[Chuckles] He keeps finding a way
to prove everyone wrong.
He's... [breathes deeply]
He's my miracle.
That all seems pretty, uh,
important to you in your life.
Religion and god.
Yeah, it's-it's more like a relationship
for me, and...
Yes. It defines me.
And that lady who came up and talked
to you at church all those years ago,
you still believe her?
[Soft chuckle] I'm trying.
I'm a work in progress.
- This is where you bring all your girls?
- [Laughs] Are you my girl now?
[Brenda] No.
- [Jenny Jo] Hey, there.
- [Brenda] Hey.
- [Chuckles]
- You just come with me.
Hi. Good to see you again.
- Yes, good to see you.
- Kurt, this is my dad.
- Hey, there.
- Hello, sir, pleasure to meet you.
- I want grandma.
- Yeah?
- He's cute.
- Oh, will you stop it?
- Please, I'm married.
- That's my sister.
- Nice to meet ya.
- [Chuckles]
Uh, hey, dad,
could you give us a minute?
It's my garage.
I wasn't finished yet.
[Brenda] All right.
Okay, I'm trying to imagine a scenario
where any of this works.
What, exactly?
- Y-You know, us.
- Oh, we're an "us" now. That's good news.
- This is crazy. This isn't gonna work.
- You keep saying that.
I just can't... [sighs]
[Moaning]
- So, tomorrow night?
- Yep.
All right.
["I'm a ramblin' man"
by Waylon Jennings playing]
- [Indistinct chattering]
- Get set, get set, get set!
Three-sixty. Three-sixty. Set, hut!
[People chattering]
[Cheenng]
[Moaning]
Hey, hey.
How does it feel to make out
with a future professional athlete?
It was better before you said that.
Two. Sixty, hut.
Set. Hut.
[Grunting]
Again. Let's go again.
Come on, right now, let's go.
[Announcer] Kurt Warner
has been absolutely on fire today.
And I'm telling you folks,
there's been a growing buzz
that this kid may be the dark horse
in this year's NFL draft.
[Kurt] I wa... I was voted
gateway player of the year
and our team was first in conference.
[Man on phone] Look, it's rare
that a i-aa player gets drafted.
But let's see what we can do.
- Thank you! Yes! I-I-I promise...
- Okay, gotta grab this.
- Look forward to it, buddy.
- I got an agent!
- Let's go!
[Horn honking]
[Chuckling]
Hey.
[Kurt grunts]
[Mom] Hey. Draft day.
[Chuckles] How do you feel?
Are you nervous?
Yeah, no, I feel good.
I just want my chance, you know.
Yeah. Yeah, of course.
Who's this over here?
Oh, yeah, mom, so, this is Brenda.
And this is her son, Zack.
- Hi.
- Hi, it's nice to meet you.
The, uh, bengals
have selected Dan wilkinson,
- defensive tackle, Ohio state university.
- [Zack] Pick Kurt. Pick Kurt.
- [Kurt chuckles]
- Shh, sweetheart.
No, no, no, no, hey, it's okay.
[Chuckles] It's okay.
I probably won't get picked
until tomorrow, though.
Tomorrow?
Yeah, there's seven rounds of picks
that are, uh, spread out over two days,
so, if I get picked... well, when I get
picked, it'll be in the later rounds.
Kurt, it's Zack's birthday
tomorrow, remember?
- We're havin' a party at the house?
- Birthday. It's my birthday.
[Kurt] No, no, no, it'll be fine, Brenda.
You guys can start the party,
and then I'll just join
as soon as this is over.
And then, we can all
celebrate together, you know?
- Right.
- [Man on TV] ...Trading the pick,
and that was something
that'd been debated for weeks.
If Seattle would've said,
"hey, Cortez Kennedy,
twenty-seven other teams,
he's out there for a trade,"
what kind of options
would they have gotten in return?
- [Door opens]
- [Kurt] Here you go.
- [Zack] Bye, Kurt.
- [Kurt] Bye. Bye, z-man.
Bye, Brenda. Drive safe.
[Door opens, closes]
- You sure you're good driving me back?
- Ain't a problem.
You sure that's a good idea?
What?
Single mom, two kids.
That's no joke.
I would know.
Is that really the life you want?
[Zack] Yay!
[Indistinct chatter]
- [Brenda] Who wants cake?
- I do.
- Yes!
- [Brenda] You got a fork? Okay, good.
Okay, here you go, honey.
And another piece of cake
comin' right up for you.
[Door closes]
[Sighs]
- [Zack giggles]
- [Brenda] Uh-huh. Uh-huh.
- Happy birthday, Zack.
- Vvantcake?
Come on, well, you're-you're-you're
just in time for the cake.
- Yeah.
- You made it just in time.
[Zack] See? Cake.
- Over there.
- [Mouthing] I'm sorry.
I can't wait to eat mine.
- How's it taste?
- Good.
- I bet real sugary, huh?
- [Jesse babbles]
How you feel? Older?
[Sighs]
[Grunts]
[Brenda] I was wondering where you were.
[Sighs] Hey.
You wanna talk to me?
[Sighs]
I'm just wondering why god
would give me a dream
that's probably never gonna come true.
'Cause I just feel like
that's cruel, you know?
Babe, you know what? I just want...
I just want my shot.
[Stutters] I just...
I want one chance, so I can prove...
Prove what?
Prove that I'm good enough, that's what.
I don't think a football game
is ever gonna do that.
It doesn't have to define you.
But if this is your dream,
you have to go fight for it.
So, how do you think, uh,
the bears are gonna do this year, son?
Well, they just fired ditka,
so things are probably
gonna get worse before they...
Did they call?
- Hm?
- Are you kidding me?
Did somebody from the bears
call here today?
Oh, no, no, no, no,
the bears didn't call, buddy, I'm sorry.
[Chuckles] I'm sorry. No.
[Clears throat]
The packers called.
- They wanna sign you.
- Come on.
- No, they do.
- Come on! [Laughs]
- Oh, wow.
- Congratulations.
[Laughs] Green bay!
[Chuckles] $5,000 signing bonus, baby!
Pretty great, huh?
Thank you so much. [Grunts]
It is green.
For the packers, green bay. Get it?
Yeah, we get it.
Packers for life.
- That's why she's green.
- Yeah, we get it, man.
Hey.
I don't wanna leave you.
- I don't wanna leave you.
- Aww.
[Kurt] You ever feel like your whole life
was just leadin' up to one moment?
[Inhales deeply]
Then go make the most of it.
Hey.
- Hey, you okay?
- Yeah.
I'm happy for you, but I know
that this is gonna change things.
Your life is gonna get busier, and...
Hey, hey, Brenda, Brenda, Brenda,
Brenda, it's okay.
We'll figure it out.
Yeah. We'll figure it out.
[Moans]
- I miss you already.
- Me too.
- I'll call you when I get... I will.
- You drive safe.
I'll call you when I get there.
- You better.
- Packers for life!
- [Chuckles]
- [Engine starts]
["My god called me this morning"
by Jeremy redmon playing]
[Indistinct chattering]
- [Coach] Push and throw. Push and throw.
- [Grunts]
[Indistinct chattering]
[Coach] Yeah, good ball!
Ball that away, Brett.
Boy, way to zip it in there.
Hey, pop. Pop Warner.
Let's see what you got.
Did you hear what I said? You're in.
Uh, yeah, I... coach, I just got here.
I don't know the playbook yet.
- You don't wanna go in?
- I do wanna go in.
I just don't wanna blow it out there.
You give me till tomorrow, I'll know it.
Hey, detmer, you're in.
- Hey, you wanted to see me, coach?
- Yeah, thanks for comin' in, Warner.
Hey.
Wish you well.
Wait, what?
We're letting you go.
No, no, you're letting me go?
No. I just got here.
- You-you haven't even seen me play yet.
- Well, we tried.
No, I'm sorry, sir,
but I'm not gonna leave.
- Not yet. You-you can't cut me.
- You cut yourself, okay?
Coach, please. I have been
working for this my entire life.
Stop it. Come on.
Don't do that.
If it were true, you would've been
ready to go on the field.
You're not.
I'MMA need that playbook.
[Kurt] I just don't know what to do,
Brenda.
I've called every team in the NFL,
no one's interested.
I wanna go on, I do.
But, I mean, look at me, I'm...
I'm unemployed, I'm homeless.
Oh, right, I forgot to tell you
that hudnutt's movin' to des moines.
[Scoffs]
Then move in.
What?
With us. My family.
With nursing school starting,
I could use a live-in nanny.
We're both gonna be struggling, so...
- Why don't we struggle together?
- Yeah, together.
What is your mom gonna think?
It's your mom I'm worried about.
That woman hates me.
I mean, she do... I mean...
[Announcer] Favre to put it up.
Oh, come on, man,
just throw the dang ball.
Football.
That's right, z-man. You like it?
You play.
Yeah, I'd really like to, bud,
but they didn't pick me.
I pick you.
I pick you too, bud.
27.12.
[Clears throat]
- Um, you take food stamps?
- Mm-hmm.
Anything else for ya?
No, that's...
Uh, actually, yeah.
Um, can I get a...
- Can I get one of your applications?
- Yeah.
[Door opens]
[Soft chuckle]
Hmm.
Hey, mama.
- I got a job today.
- Yeah?
Yeah. Stockin' shelves at the hy-vee.
Graveyard shift.
It's just for a little while.
Until next season's tryouts.
[Inhales deeply]
You know what they say,
sometimes you gotta do what you gotta do,
until you can do
what you want to do. You know?
[Brenda sighs]
Don't give up.
[Inspirational music playing]
It's Kurt Warner.
Go panthers.
[Brenda] I gotta get to class.
Hey.
Pray for me.
We're learning how to insert an iv.
I'll be home by seven. Date night?
- No, my shift starts at six-thirty.
- Oh. Sorry.
Okay.
[Exhales deeply]
[Panting]
Think you'd be that guy?
Yeah, I do.
What are you doin' here? Get it done.
Yeah, 'cause it's that easy.
- Oh, nice hands.
- Oh.
Go long. Go long. Set, hut.
[Grunts]
Oh! [Chuckles] Ow.
[Sighs] Come on, man.
Yeah, yeah, I got it. [Sighs]
[Bell rings]
Kurt Warner.
I've been looking everywhere for you.
Jim foster.
It is my absolute pleasure to meet you.
- And you are?
- Brenda.
Pleasure to meet you.
Can I sit? Look, elephant in the room.
I am sorry about the draft
and the packers.
But you got it all, kid.
The whole package.
The world just needs
more time to see it.
Well, thank you.
See, this guy gets it.
Yes, I get it.
And what if I told you, starting tomorrow,
you have a job, playin' the game you love?
What are you, a scout or somethin'?
[Chuckles] No.
I'm the proud owner and head coach
of the Iowa barnstormers.
The newest members
of the arena football league.
Right. You're the guy who came up
with this whole arena concept.
Last year,
I was commissioner of the league.
This year, I came home to Iowa
to start my own team,
- and I wanna build it around you.
- So, it's arena football?
No, it is not football, babe.
It's like a circus.
Yes, that's right. You get it.
People love the circus.
- I like the circus.
- Hey, hey.
I am gonna play football,
and I'm gonna play it in the NFL.
And I can't do that if I'm playing
arena football in the spring.
This is for guys that are,
you know, circling the drain.
I'll tell you what.
Just... think about it.
- Get him to think about it.
- [Chuckles]
Here's my card... oops.
Dropped a little money there.
Brenda, it's all the way in des moines.
And it's not football.
[Breathes deeply]
Hell, I don't know!
You're the agent.
I mean, what happened to tampa bay?
San Diego? There were other offers.
Can't you just make some calls?
[Agent] Kurt, that was last year.
Look, the teams have moved on.
I just don't see a path forward here.
I'm sorry.
I gotta grab this.
Take care of yourself.
- No, no, no, no, no, no.
- [Dial tone]
- [Brenda's dad] Hey, Kurt.
- Yeah?
- Can I borrow you a second?
- Yeah, yeah, yeah, one minute.
All right, z-man.
[Brenda's dad]
We bought our dream home, son.
Down in Arkansas.
It's closer to Jenny's family.
And, uh, oh, it's great.
It's a brand-new ranch home.
Two-car garage.
[Sniffles]
And it's right down the road
from the white river.
And there's some good fishin' in there,
buddy. Man... [chuckles]
So, uh, well, we'll be ieavin' soon.
And, um, the thing is, is I was...
We need to find
a new place to live.
Well, I'm glad to hear you say "we."
Look, um, Jenny Jo
would want me to ask you this.
Um, I mean... [sniffles]
Good Christian family, after all,
and, uh... [sniffles]
- Do you love her?
- Yes, sir. I do.
I knew you did.
Do you mind me asking
what's holding you up?
That's-that's okay.
I... no, no, no, no, I... [sighs]
That's fine. Um...
I guess, I just... I felt like
I needed to prove myself first.
Show her I was capable of doin'
what I set out to do.
Be worthy of her.
Well, hell, Kurt.
Accomplishing one thing or the other
is not what's gonna make you
worthy of her.
Life is-is not about what you can achieve,
it's about what you can become.
It's a journey, son.
It's not an event.
Just promise me this.
You won't take off when things get hard.
And they will get hard.
Yes, sir.
Take care of these kids for me.
Well, that's a guarantee.
I know.
[Inhales]
[Wind blowing]
[Woman on radio] A major blizzard caused
accidents across the midwest Monday.
And a dangerous blast of arctic air
is expected to spread
across the region overnight.
Record breaking low temperatures
will make the next few days
the coldest the region has seen
in at least 25 years.
[Sighs]
- Hey.
- [Zack coughs]
How's the fever?
- The same.
- [Kurt] What happened to the heat?
- Did we pay the bill?
- I don't know, Kurt.
You told me not to put it in the mail,
remember?
Damn it.
Maybe we should just go to my mom's
until the storm passes.
Hey, I decided. I'm droppin' out
of school, gettin' a job.
- What? No. No, no, no. No way.
- Kurt, it's not working.
- Nothing here is working.
- Stop. Stop it.
Listen, if this is what you really
wanna do, I'm not gonna let you quit.
Because that's what you did for me,
and that's what we do for each other.
We are not quitting.
Do you understand?
- [Sighs]
- Okay?
[Zack coughing]
[Both] Yeah.
- [Zack coughs]
- [Brenda] It's bad out here.
Maybe we should head back home.
[Engine sputters]
- Oh. Kurtis?
- [Kurt] Uh...
[Zack coughs]
Baby, we just ran outta gas.
- [Sighs] Oh, my god.
- Okay, all right, there's a...
There's a... there's a gas station
a couple miles back.
That was...
That was more than a couple of miles.
It's okay, it's okay, it's okay.
I can make it there.
No problem. No problem.
Just grab the change outta the door.
- Yep.
- And, check the glove compartment, too.
- Yep. Here's some.
- I'm just gonna checking my pocket.
I got a couple
dollars in my wallet here.
- Here's another quarter.
- Yep, here.
- Stay inside.
- Uh-huh.
- Stay warm. Keep the doors shut.
- Yeah, be-be fast.
[Wind blowing]
Excuse me, hi.
Uh, 4.86 on pump three
and, uh, do you have any gas cans?
- Uh, yeah, man. Five bucks.
- No, no, no, I, uh...
I don't need to buy one,
I just need to borrow one.
I'll bring it right back. [Panting]
Please, please.
- All right.
- Thank you. Thank you.
[Panting]
Hey. Hey.
- [Brenda] Kurt.
- I'm so sorry, are you okay?
Are you okay?
Let's get you all warmed up.
Brenda, I'm so sorry.
You all could've died out there.
[Brenda] It's not your fault, Kurt.
Yeah, it is my fault.
I promised your father that I would
take care of you and the kids.
So that is exactly what I'm gonna do.
[Sighs]
[Breathes deeply]
[Cows mooing]
[Jim] Fifty yards long.
Eight-yard end zones. Eight men each side.
This is not a football field.
This is an arena... for gladiators.
For true believers and lovers of the game.
And right over here is our sideline.
In our version of the game,
the sideline is a wall.
And it will pound you and punish you.
Trust me.
Kurt Warner.
So, did hell freeze over or are you
just tired of waiting on the NFL?
[Men laughing]
Uh, bit of both, sir.
Forget everything you think
you know about football.
No punts, no turning back.
It's all pressure.
It's football at the speed of Nascar.
We call it "the 50-yard indoor war."
You think you can handle that, Warner?
I think it's time I tried.
All right, red.
[Whistle blows]
Well, well, well,
look who's still circling the drain.
[Chuckles] What's up, boy?
- [Grunts]
- All right, all right, all right.
[Chuckles] Well, Kurt,
if we gonna go down,
might as well go down together.
["Ooh, aah (my life be like)"
By grits feat. Tobymac playing]
Set, hut!
Faster, faster. Pull the trigger.
Come on, Warner.
Ooh, that'll wake you
up in the mornin', boy.
- Get outta here.
- You better watch it.
- Whoo!
You gotta get rid of the ball, Warner,
you look like you're movin'
in slow motion.
Set, hut!
One, two, three, throw.
One, two, three, throw. Come on!
[Grunting]
Oh, that feels good, don't it?
Pain feels good, baby!
[Whistle blows]
Oh, you can't touch me, boy.
You can't touch me, boy.
[Man] Oh, whatever.
[Kurt] Man, it's fast.
Yeah, you'll get used to it.
Uh, if this is where we practice,
where on earth do we play?
[Cow mooing]
[Crowd cheering]
Hey. Hey, hud. What is that?
Oh, that's the rodeo arena.
Where they have cattle,
cuttin' horse shows, pony shows.
Them pony shows is fresh.
But we this way.
[Jim on microphone]
Ladies and gentlemen,
please welcome...
That's us right here, right now!
They coming! They coming!
- The Iowa barnstormers!
- [Yelling]
They call it the barn.
Let's go, 1-3. Whoo!
[Jim] Come on. Come on down. Yeah.
[Announcer] The crazies are out in force
tonight in des moines.
Don't touch the dial, folks.
The mayhem starts right now.
- [Grunting]
- [Cheering]
Oh, my god!
[Upbeat music playing]
- Yeah! Let's go!
- Go! Yeah!
[Announcer] Taylor fires to Paul hogan,
and he is dragged out over the wall
into his own bench.
- [Whistles blowing]
- And we got our first fight of the night.
- [Yelling]
- That was a good hit.
[Announcer] Quick slant to corn Willis
in the middle of the field.
Catchings in for the touchdown.
God help me.
[Indistinct] On one, ready!
[Announced
that will bring out a new face.
Kurt Warner from
the university of northern Iowa.
He had quite a reputation
for being a gunslinger with the panthers.
Let's see if he's got
any of that cowboy still in him.
[Grunting]
[Booing]
Oh, boy, that moves fast.
Snap it, snap it! Snap it! Snap it!
[Announcer] Steward in motion,
Warner won't get the snap off in time.
Unbelievable.
Get him out of here!
Trips left. Uh, no. Uh, trips right.
Fifty, double-post on one.
[Announced
Warner definitely out of rhythm right now.
- Set, hut!
- There's the snap. Drops back.
In trouble, takes off,
he gets buried by defensive end,
Travis Leigh.
Hey, red, they got a lemon law
on quarterbacks?
Come on, man! What are you doing?
Come on, man!
Hey, Warner, that way.
Not that way. Ball there.
Set, hut!
Three steps, drop, throw.
- Set, hut!
- Three step, drop, and throw.
Late!
Set, hut!
- Late.
- [Scoffs]
- Set, hut!
What are you doin' in that extra beat,
balancing your checkbook?
- Come on, man.
Look, you don't have time enough
to drop back and settle like that, man.
It's faster than that.
You just gotta, like, pick it up.
Push and throw.
He's gettin' it, coach.
He gettin' it.
Set! Hut!
- [Crowd cheering]
- Left 33, wing out.
Z-go. On one. Ready.
[Announcer] First and ten
for Jim foster's 0-1 team.
There is growing concern in des moines
in their old coach's taste
in quarterbacks.
One game in and the seat
is already red hot.
Warner hikes.
His line buys him some time.
And he hooks up with steward
for a gain of 12.
All right, all right. A little low.
- Kurt, you got to completion!
- [Sighs]
- Come on! Let's go!
- Come on!
- Hurry up, hurry up, hurry up!
- Let's go!
[Announcer] Iowa's ball
at the 25-yard line.
The crowd is making noise
for the first time tonight.
[Crowd cheering]
And there's a little hope,
sneaking into the building.
Warner stands tall in the pocket.
[Grunting]
Brandon smallbone,
who holds on to the catch.
All right, now we're playin' football.
See Mike! See Mike!
- Warner under center...
- Set, hut!
Surveys the defense.
- Drops to throw, going long. Touchdown!
- [Cheering]
Touchdown!
Yeah, now we're talking.
[Mouthing] God, thank you.
[Announced
and for the first time this season,
there is actual excitement in this arena.
- Keep it going!
- There he is.
- Come on, let's keep it going.
- Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, here.
- What is this?
- That's a touchdown bonus.
- You pay me per touchdown?
- I also pay you to win.
Did you even read your contract?
Teach him to read, man.
Wait, really, $100 every single touchdown?
Every touchdown.
Happy to pay it.
Oh, this gonna be fun.
[Announced
the barnyard comin' to life.
It is loud!
Crowd's getting loud for Warner.
He lets it fly.
And he drops it in perfectly
over the defender.
Touchdown!
Oh, my word. [Chuckles]
[Announcer] What a play!
Welcome to arena football, Mr. Warner.
Come on!
["Spare change"
by the cross movement playing]
[Cheenng]
[Kurt] Seven touchdowns.
Seven, baby. It was epic.
Hey, you're gettin' my,
uh, salary checks, right?
- I told 'em to send 'em straight to you.
- [Brenda] Yep, [got them. Thanks.
Sounds party-ish over there.
- Yeah, well, you know, right out of—-
- [Zack] Kurt! I wanna talk to him.
Hey, z-man! Hey, pal.
I miss you so much.
- [Cheering]
- [Zack] I can't hear him, mama.
[Brenda] It's loud. Kurt, listen,
I gotta get the kids down.
Are you comin' home this weekend?
Zack's been asking.
Um, i-I'm sorry, hun, no, I can't.
Uh, we have practice.
But, hey, why don't you come up
on Saturday and, uh, you can... you can...
- You can bring the kids.
- I have to study this weekend.
Look, I'm tired.
I'm goin' to bed.
- Love you.
- _ [hudnutt] Hey, come on. I need my—-
- I need my partner.
- [Dial tone]
- Come on.
- I'm comin'.
- Undefeated, baby.
- I'm comin', I'm comin', I'm comin'.
Ninety-two to 96. Come on, now.
- [Crowd cheering]
- Come on, stormers!
[Announcer] And what a show
Kurt Warner has put on all season.
Eighteen touchdown passes.
And he's rushed for 12 more.
What a hidden gem out of northern Iowa.
Right, z-cross. S-player. On one. Ready.
[Announcer] Tell you what, you give
Kurt Warner time to throw the football,
and he is a dangerous man.
Set, hut!
[Grunting]
[Announcer] Kurt throws a strike
to hudnutt for the catch.
- And a run down the 20-yard line.
- Yes!
[Yelling indistinct]
Come on, coach!
What next? Come on!
Okay.
Set, hut!
[Announcer] Warner, quarterback draw.
And he's in!
Another barnstormer touchdown!
[Cheers]
You, uh, you all enjoy the game tonight?
[Man] Yeah, that was great.
You were amazing.
- Good. Good.
- [Brenda] Excuse me.
- Got a long drive home.
- [Brenda] We need to cut...
Through here to see Kurt.
[Man] You need a wristband, ma'am.
For the meet and greet.
Oh, no, no, no.
We're-we're-we're with Kurt.
Yeah, you and everyone else.
No, we're his family.
Um, look, I've got...
I've got our tickets right here,
and I just need to...
[Man] You still need a wristband.
Zack?
Zack! Sir, excuse me.
Zack?! Zack?!
Stop it! Excuse me.
Have you seen my son? He's six.
He's wearing a green sweatshirt.
[Brenda indistinct]
Oh, my god.
[Kurt] Brenda, I didn't even know
you guys were gonna be here.
I thought you had to study.
Well, that's why it's called
a "surprise," Kurt.
Okay, then why are you upset?
Because... [scoffs]
I couldn't get to you
and it felt like everyone else could.
And then I lost Zack and...
Because I didn't know you were coming,
but hey, babe, we won.
- We're going to the semi-finals.
- I know.
- It was just supposed to be different.
- Yo, Kurt, party at our place tonight...
- Hey, bren.
- Hud.
I don't have to go to that.
We've got a long drive home.
How's my baby girl?
[Brenda] Just fine. How are you?
Just waiting on tonight.
Sunday night movie night.
Miss watching with you.
So, what does just fine mean?
You know.
And how's Kurt?
[Inhales] Far away.
[Chuckles] Hey.
Uh, no kids?
No kids.
Do you wanna go grab some lunch?
Could we sit and
talk for a few minutes?
Yeah, sure.
Come on in.
What's, uh, what's on your mind?
I have a question, and I'm just...
Gonna say it and get it out, and...
I want you to know that I'm not angry,
I just need an honest answer.
Uh, okay.
Do you see yourself in my life long-term?
I mean, watching Zack grow up,
walking Jesse down the aisle.
Standing by my side
at my parents' 50th anniversary.
Do you honestly see yourself there?
Okay, 'cause I've had
a lot of time to think...
Wait, wait, wait, wait.
Let me answer your question.
Kurt, you already did.
I'm happy for you.
For everything
that's going on in your life.
[Sighs] But it's not working for my life.
- Brenda, you...
- Can you please just let me finish?
I've been through this before,
you know that.
And I can't do it again.
So... why don't we
just skip to that part
and save ourselves a lot of time
and tears?
So-so...
Help me understand this.
What, exactly?
We're just supposed to end it now,
so we don't have to end it later?
- Yes.
- Why?
Because you can't decide. You won't...
Oh, oh, oh, oh. Oh, no, no,
you don't get to pin that on me.
No, sorry. You're the one who's afraid...
- Yes, I'm afraid.
- Yes, you're afraid.
Of what? Of me bailin' on you?
Of me hurtin' you?
Me bein' some version of your ex?
I'm afraid that we're
gonna hurt each other.
- That is the only way that this ends.
- You don't know that!
Kurt, I want you to chase your dreams,
just not with me.
[Breathes deeply]
[Claps hands] Okay.
- What is that?
- That's my touchdown money.
Are you paying me to break up?
I'm pretty sure you're the one
breakin' up with me right now.
- It was a discussion.
- It was a discussion,
and now it's a decision.
And you know what?
[Stammers] I get it.
I get it. You're right, Brenda.
You're always right.
We should just end it now,
and just be done with it.
Yeah. I gotta get to the game,
'cause apparently,
that's the only thing I'm any good at.
Anyway... [inhales deeply]
Drive safe. Tell the kids I said hi.
[Door opens, closes]
[Sighs]
[Jim's voice echoes]
Left 50 pogo, y-cross.
Warner!
Come on, man.
Left 50 pogo, y-cross. Ready.
[Indistinct chatter]
See 44, see 44!
Set, hut!
[Grunting]
[Announcer] And that'll do it.
With time running out,
that touchdown will seal the win
for coach foster.
- Whoo-hoo!
- The Iowa barnstormers
are heading to the arenabow/
to face tampa bay.
[Kurt's mom]
Shouldn't you be celebrating?
[Kurt chuckles]
I mean, what do you think this is?
- Come on.
- [Chuckles] Oh, god.
What?
That is not the face of somebody
that just made the finals.
Where's Brenda?
[Inhales sharply]
[Clears throat]
We, uh... we broke up.
[Sighs]
Winning doesn't always
feel like winning, huh?
It never has.
Why is that?
'Cause it doesn't mean anything when you
don't have someone to share it with.
She should be here, Kurt.
It's wrong that she isn't.
- I thought you didn't like her.
- No.
No, I just... [stammers]
I just saw too
much of myself in her.
[Stammers] I didn't want you to struggle
the way that I struggled.
But my story doesn't
have to be her story.
You love her. You stuck with her.
With those kids.
You have grown up
to be a good man.
She makes you happy, Kurt.
I've seen it.
She makes you better.
[Kurt inhales]
Hi, again. Sportscenter hippin' you
to what's up.
- Alongside Steve Levy, I'm Stuart Scott.
- [Phone ringing]
Coming up, in addition to the items
already mentioned,
Mark O'Leary is here
to put in proper perspective.
Raiders head coach Jon gruden says...
Hello?
[Brenda] Kurt.
[Crying] Kurt.
Brenda, what's wrong?
Kurt, oh, my god, my parents...
[Man on radio]
A massive amount of damage,
large trees are downed all over the area,
and the street I'm looking at,
the entire block has been leveled
to the concrete foundations.
[Woman on radio] Category four tornado
that hit at about 7:45 last night.
It touched down first
in pleasant grove and swept...
[Siren wailing]
[Kurt] Brenda!
Kurt!
Hey. Hey.
I got you. I'm right here.
[Cries] How can this be real?
I don't understand.
It's not fair.
I'm so angry with you. [Crying]
I'm so angry.
They're gone.
Really gone.
I'm just gonna check on the kids.
No, no, hey, hey, hey,
I'll take care of that. You stay.
[Sniffles]
[Sighs] I sure did miss you, buddy.
[Exhales]
Hwmm
[whispering] God, help.
I need you. I need you.
[Sniffles]
[Clears throat] Hey. Hey.
Hey, z-man.
Sorry, I didn't mean to wake you up.
- I just miss 'em.
- I miss them.
Yeah, we all miss 'em.
[Sniffles]
Wait just a second.
Okay, look.
[Sighs]
The way I see it, I'm gonna remember
this moment for the rest of my life,
- so if you're not...
- Hey, Brenda...
I'm gonna be here.
I'm gonna be right here.
- I love you.
- I love you, too.
- See you in a couple days, okay?
- [Jesse] Okay.
[Brenda] Bye, sweetheart.
Thanks for takin' them. I just...
I need a couple days.
Hey, whenever you're ready,
we'll see you at home. Okay?
[Sniffles]
[Engine starts]
[Dramatic music playing]
Hey, guys. Mama missed you so much.
- I love you.
- I love you, too.
- Come here.
- [Sniffles]
All my life, I've defined myself
through sports.
What I could accomplish,
how many games I could win.
And I've always come up empty.
It's never been enough.
Like I was meant for somethin' else.
Somethin' more.
What if it's this?
What if it's us, together?
Everything I could ever want
or need is right here.
[Chuckles]
It doesn't matter if I play football,
or if I don't play football,
or if I do play football, where I play
football. None of that matters.
'Cause winning isn't winning
if I don't have you by my side.
I've made my choice.
[Gasps]
I love you.
And I want what you have.
[Cries] I want your faith,
I want your strength, I want it all.
I need it. I need it in my life.
It makes me a better man.
You gotta wait till
I say the words first.
- Well, then, hurry up. God!
- [Clears throat]
- Brenda carney...
- Yes!
- You're not gonna let me finish?
- [Chuckling] No!
[Man] Ladies and gentlemen,
on the first day
of the rest of their lives,
- Mr. and Mrs. Kurt and Brenda Warner.
- [Cheering]
Come on! Come on!
["Keeper of the stars"
by Tracy byrd playing]
Hey, Warner.
We got arenabowl this weekend.
- Yeah.
- Arenabowl. Are you all in?
- Let's do it.
- [Cheering]
This. Right here, this is my "all in."
I love you.
Daddy, will you dance with me?
["Keeper of the stars" playing]
J“ it was no accident j“
j“ me finding you, daddy j"
j“ someone had a hand in it j“
j“ long before we ever knew. J“
[applause]
So good.
[Announcer] After four months
and 16 games, it has come down to this.
A barn dance in des moines,
and they are rockin' and rollin'
here at the veterans auditorium
in des moines.
The defending champion tampa bay storm
against the Iowa barnstormers.
Hello, everyone,
along with kirk herbstreit,
I am Todd christensen.
[Mike golic] Hey, Todd, kirk.
Cleveland stadium has the dawg pound,
veteran memorial stadium has the barnyard.
They keep this area
for the "different" people.
- [Grunting]
- Whoo!
[Kurt] Hurry up, hurry up, hurry up.
[Announcer] You can feel the momentum
switching to Iowa here
as they drive for a go-ahead score.
Twenty-sixth completion by Kurt Warner,
that too is an arenabowl record.
Warner, the ball is tipped.
The receiver is able to make the catch.
Come on! Come on, come on!
Hurry up! Let's go!
[Announcer] If you don't keep contain
on this guy, he's going to hurt you.
If they want a championship,
this is where they have to earn it,
inside this five-yard line.
- Don't hold it, don't hold it.
- Jay Cox in motion left.
- Throw.
- Warner pump fakes,
he's able to buy some time.
He gets rid of it.
It appears...
- No!
- [Groans]
[Announcer] A little pressure
right in the face of Kurt Warner,
and who would've thought
that on the one-yard line
that they couldn't get it in?
[Announcer2]
Takin' a look back at that,
you can see the pressure
applied there...
[Announcer1]
The tampa bay storm are the champions.
There you go... oh, my pleasure, yeah.
Thanks for comin' out.
- Sorry we didn't win.
- [Jim] Kurt.
- Hey, Kurt? Excuse us, Brenda.
- Oh, sure.
- There's a gentleman here to see you.
- My pleasure. You stay here, that's fine.
Heck of a game for you, Kurt.
Well, thank you,
but it didn't help us win.
I hate to lose, sir.
I hate it for the team.
I'm David gillis.
We've been trying to reach you.
We want you to
come try out for us.
Try out?
I been puttin' off
his calls for a while.
Can you blame me?
- I'm sorry, who are you?
- I'm with the rams.
[Indistinct chatter]
- [Chuckles]
- Dick. Come on.
Dick, you... I don't get it.
I like him. It's a hunch.
It's arena football.
[Scoffs] You think that'll translate?
Character translates anywhere, Mike.
The gm sure likes his price.
I mean, our groundskeeper's
gonna make more than him this season.
John, this guy is old.
Slow as molasses.
And frankly, he's beneath
the standards of this franchise.
[Chuckles] That's what people
said about me when I came here.
[Chuckles]
[Man] He's got a howitzer
for a right arm, though.
There is no way this guy
makes the team.
No way.
[Announcer] First and ten, going up.
[Indistinct]
Touchdown!
I like him.
["Boom" by p.O.D. Playing]
[Indistinct chattering]
- [Coach] Sprint!
- [Whistle blows]
- [Coach indistinct]
[Indistinct chattering]
[Coach] All right, next group,
guys, let's go.
Set, hut!
[Coach] There we go. Good job.
Yeah, way to sling it, Trent. Good boy.
The packers called you up once.
[Clears throat] Yes, sir.
A long time ago.
Ah. How long did you last?
Not long enough.
Two days. You lasted two days.
Don't get too comfortable.
All we're lookin' for, gentlemen,
is perfection.
Let's see how we do with Trent green
on the c-map.
One, two, three, four, five,
step, and throw. Very nice.
Stop. Now, oz, you know why
he put that ball right there, right?
That's to keep you from gettin' hit.
That's to protect you.
Very good. Excellent ball placement.
[Indistinct yelling]
Stop, stop. Torry, no.
You know that dig is 15 and cut.
Not 14. Right?
- Fifteen.
- Don't mind coach martz.
Let me know if you need anything.
I'm Isaac.
Yeah. Yeah, man,
I know who you are.
- I'm Kurt. It's a pleasure to meet you.
- Nice to meet you.
Hey, Mike. Have you put in 1-3 yet?
[Sighs]
You wanna waste everybody's time?
- [Chuckles]
- All right, second group, let's go.
Pop Warner, that's you, let's go.
[Indistinct chattering]
All right, let's see some happy feet.
Let's see some happy feet,
people, let's go.
[Martz] Okay, let's watch Kurt Warner.
How close to perfection
can we get this time?
Step, throw, stop.
It's the wrong read.
It's the wrong damn read!
You're ahead of 'em.
You gotta hit 'em in stride, Kurt.
[Chuckles] Yes, sir.
"Yes, sir," with a grin. Why the grin?
[Laughs] I don't know, coach,
I was just...
I was curious as to why everybody
here in the NFL moves so slow.
[All laughing]
Gentlemen, I believe arena boy
just called every one of you slow.
So, we gonna end on that,
and on this, which is for Warner,
when he learns to throw a spiral.
- [All exclaiming]
- Mr. Trent green,
you can break 'em
down and take 'em out.
Goodnight, gentlemen.
Hey. Ride it out, rook.
It's all part of the plan.
Break!
[Indistinct chattering]
C-5-7! C-5-7!
Blue 80! Blue 80!
- [Whistle blows]
- Give me that ball! Give me the ball!
What are you thinkin'?
How do you drop that?
That ain't on the qb, coach.
That man is riskin' his life
for you every snap!
And you don't have the dignity
to hold on to the damn ball?
You hold on to this ball!
Yes, sir. That's my mistake.
It won't happen again.
[Dick] All right, let's run it again.
We good. You're good, you're good.
I don't know, Brenda, I don't think
I'm gonna be here much longer.
[Brenda on phone] How do you know that?
The offensive coordinator hates me.
I mean, I can't prove myself.
He won't let me.
I'm not gettin' any snaps.
- Hates you?
- Yeah, no, he hates me.
I mean, this is
Trent green's team, anyway.
They built it around him,
and he's incredible.
- Babe, hang in there.
- [Knocking]
Hey, Warner,
coach wants to see you upstairs.
I gotta go.
- I love you.
- I love you, too.
[Crickets chirping]
[Clears throat] You wanted to see me, sir?
Oh. Yes.
[Breathes deeply]
How long for you in the wilderness, son?
[Chuckles] How long outta college?
Right. Well, yeah, I mean, it's, uh,
it's been a few years.
But, sir, that doesn't mean
that I don't know how to play the game...
Fourteen. For me.
Fourteen years outta coaching.
I burned out. Not embarrassed to say it.
Took a year off,
turned out to be a decade and a half.
And when I did come back,
they said I was a retread,
a has-been, too old.
[Chuckles]
Game had passed me by, all that stuff.
All that same stuff
that they're gonna say about you.
[Sighs]
What they didn't know
was all that experience
that I had in those years
made me who I am.
Made me ready for this moment.
Gave me something others didn't have.
And I see that in you, Kurt.
Destiny...
It belongs to the underdogs.
You wanna prove that? Together?
There's somethin' special about you, son.
And I'm really gonna enjoy
finding out what that is.
Welcome to the rams.
Come on. Come on! [Laughing]
Oh, my gosh! Oh, coach, thank you.
Thank you for trusting me.
I gotta go tell... I gotta tell my wife.
I gotta tell my wife.
This is the best decision
you've ever made in your life.
I promise you.
I gotta go tell my wife.
And then we're gonna go get some brews.
Guys, I'm home.
Zack?!
Zack, honey, no! No, no, no.
Hey, baby, baby...
Brenda, it's okay.
It's okay, it's okay, come here.
Sit with me.
Why would you let him do that?
He said he was ready.
And I believed him.
Mom, I'm driving!
- [Chuckles] Yeah, you are, bud!
- Yes, baby!
[Chuckles]
[Crowd cheering]
[Indistinct chattering]
Let's go! Let's go!
Come on, Charles!
[Announcer] Trent green,
the ninth rated passer
with 81.8 percent
quarterback rating in 1998,
the real hope for this offense.
We've been talking about him all game
and all pre-season long.
Hey, check it out.
That's my boy.
This might be the only screen time
he gets, though.
Boy, shut up.
[Announcer] To number 18,
Tony small, the rookie...
- [Announcer 2] Whoa!
- [Announcer 1 indistinct]
[Announcer2]
Freddie Miller is a bad man.
Freddie Miller's a bad man.
Now, we got Trent green down.
He... we've got Trent green down
in the middle of the field.
This is not the way I saw this...
[Groans]
[Announcer 1] And green went down hard
and is not getting up.
- And that looks bad.
- [Announcer 3] You do not want...
Writhing in pain,
you do not wanna see this.
If you're the rams...
If you're anybody, for that matter.
[Announcer 1] He was in a lot ofpain,
and ya hate to see that
- after a player gets ya by the knees...
- Son of a...
From behind, and Isaac Bruce
is obviously upset about it as well.
[Announcer2]
He should have been penalized.
[Announcer 1] Kurt Warner, now warming up
on the sideline for the rams.
- Kurt Warner, a capable backup.
- Oh, my god.
But certainly not where Trent green is.
And the kind of experience...
It's been an exciting night for us here
at ESPN, an exciting night for the NFL.
[Radio host 1] So, obviously, lots of buzz
coming out this morning here
from the rams' camp.
And the question of the day is,
"why not Kurt Warner?"
[Radio host 2] Why not Kurt Warner?
Really? You just said that? Okay.
[Radio host 3] Kurt Warner replaced
Trent green as the starting quarterback.
This ain't the guy.
[Radio host 4] If the rams are gonna trade
for a quality starting quarterback,
they can't wait.
They've gotta do it right now.
[Radio host 5] If dick vermeil stays
with this guy, he's gonna be a joke, man.
Their program is a joke.
The season's over.
[Knocking on door]
[Martz] Come in.
- Sit down, Kurt.
- Thank you, coach, I prefer to stand.
All right. Go ahead, then. Tell me.
Tell you what?
Why a team worth $800 million
with one of the most complex
offenses ever built, by me,
should put you in the driver's seat.
Because you threw some touchdowns
in a little football arena?
[Chuckles]
Hm? You're too old to be a rookie.
You're too green to be a pro,
you don't belong here.
Well, with all due respect,
sir, you're wrong.
And if you give me a chance,
I will prove that to you.
Make us the laughingstock in the league?
Embarrass every member of this team,
- every fan of the city?
- That's not true. It's not true.
You don't have what it takes.
That's what I believe.
So, why in the world
would I give you this shot?
Because this is my time, sir.
Because I know who I am,
and I know why I'm here.
Because I've earned it.
I've waited for it, I've bled for it.
And... [breathes deeply]
I'm finally ready for it.
I wasn't before.
God knows I wasn't, but I am now.
And I will not let you down.
You put the ball in my hands,
and we will win.
That's all, Kurt.
[Dial tone]
[Phone buzzing]
- Hello?
- [Martz] Hey, coach.
He's ready.
[Overlapping chatter]
People asked me last night
how I felt in that press conference.
[Sighs]
It hurts.
Get emotional.
But that's what this business
is all about.
We will rally around Kurt Warner.
And we will play good football.
[Overlapping chatter]
[Intro music]
[Announcer] CBS is proud to present
the national football league.
Today, we come to you from St. Louis,
Missouri, gateway to the west.
The trans world dome,
where the ravens and St. Louis rams
are set to go at it.
It's kick-off 1999,
opening day
in the national football league.
[Exhales]
[Indistinct yelling]
[Brenda] I do like a man in uniform.
[Mutters]
What are you...
How did you get in here?
I, uh... I needed you to hear this
before you went out on that field.
I was talking with our son,
and I helped him write it.
"To my daddy, Kurt.
You fix all my radios,
you walk to the gas station in the snow,
you never give up on me.
You never give up.
You play your football game.
I drive my truck.
Love, zackfi
[Breathes deeply]
That little boy... has defied all odds.
Every time.
He's proven everyone wrong.
And so will you.
You helped me believe again.
That anything can happen.
That maybe god does have something
amazing in store for us.
Maybe that moment's now.
Are you nervous?
[Chuckles]
[Clears throat] Yeah,
I'm terrified.
[Inhales]
Well, you go out there,
and you show the world
what I've known all along.
[Inspirational music playing]
[Crowd cheering]
[Announcer] Sell-out crowd. Over 66,000
expected here at the two dome.
This is the opportunity of a lifetime
for this young man.
A lot of pressure on the shoulders
of number 13.
If he doesn't perform well today,
the cinderella story could be over
before it even gets started.
Oh, he wants you to see that.
Close your eyes,
close your eyes, close your eyes.
[Announced
home in his own end zone...
[Crowd cheering]
Ready for this, son?
Yes, sir.
[Announcer] And the rams
with their new quarterback.
Kurt Warner replaced Trent green
as the starting quarterback.
Now, take a look at the ravens'
defensive lead,
ray Lewis is the all-pro in the middle.
You're all mine now, rook. All mine.
- [Whistle blows]
- All right, boys.
- Punch left, 36-Alpha. On one. Ready!
- Break!
See 42!
Easy, easy. I'm here, rook. Hey, I'm here.
- [Man indistinct]
- You get nothing.
This is my house. My house!
[Announcer] Now, we're ready to get goin'.
First down and ten for the rams
from the 42-yard line.
Marshall faulk the lone setback.
[Grunting]
Let's go!
[Announcer] Faulk taken down at the 40.
Ray Lewis got there.
Lasso, lasso, lasso!
Lasso, lasso!
- Five-two's the Mike!
- Right here, baby! I see you! I see you!
I see you, rock!
I see you, rook!
Blue 80. Blue 80, hut!
[Grunting]
[Groans]
[Announcer] And Warner ripped down by,
guess who? Ray Lewis.
[Announcer 2] It didn't take much
of a guess for those people to know...
Just another game of "kill Kurt."
Let's go.
Let's go! Let's go!
[Announcer 1] They talked about blitzing
this young quarterback early.
Ray Lewis coming in untouched.
Rams need to get Kurt Warner
some time today
- for him to be able to use...
- [Kurt] See 5-2!
- Those weapons downfield.
- Black nine!
Black nine, hut!
[Announcer] Warner steps up in the pocket.
Caught. Isaac Bruce at the 40.
You love to see that.
Hey! Yeah! I taught him that now.
One-eighty! One-eighty, hut!
[Announcer] Warner...
[Continues indistinct]
- All right. Let's go!
- Yes!
Let's go, huddle. Hey, let's go huddle.
Let's huddle. Let's huddle right now.
- Mike, what do we got?
- Right slot, fake 28, power double seam.
- On one. Ready?
- Break.
Let's go, guys. Let's go.
[Announcer] And Kurt Warner, so far,
very nice job, stayin' within himself.
Fifty-two's the Mike.
Fifty-two!
Green, 60, hut!
[Announced
Warner... intercepted by ray Lewis.
And he's gotta beat the quarterback
down the sideline.
Cuts it in. Lewis still running.
Ray Lewis all the
way down inside the 35.
And Warner finally makes a mistake.
All daylong, rook.
Eatin' you for lunch all daylong.
Whoo, let's go, ravens! Let's go! Let's...
Shake that off. You got this.
Hey, Warner, coach martz
wants to talk to you.
Yeah, coach?
[Martz] Kurt, listen to me.
You know why I
was so hard on you?
Why I put all that pressure on you?
I had to know that you were ready.
Had to be sure.
And guess what? You are.
I never would've put you on that field
if I didn't fully believe
you were a champion.
Now you get back out there,
and you get this job done.
- Let's go. Let's get after it.
- Yes, sir.
And coach?
Thank you.
[Announcer] And the rams are in business.
A 34-yard return.
- Huddle, huddle, huddle, huddle, huddle.
- Hey, look at me. You can do this.
- I know you can.
- Yeah, yeah. We got your back.
No matter what happens.
Let's go to work, man.
Let's go to work.
All right, all right.
That last one was on me.
But we got this. Let's get to work.
Right doubles, rip, 50 sail.
- On one, ready!
- Break.
- [Kurt indistinct]
- You got this.
[Announced
and this young man, Kurt Warner,
he played in the arena league in Iowa.
- Green, 60, hut!
- [Grunting]
[Cheenng]
That's it!
Give him a confidence play.
What do you say?
- Get him settled in.
- All right. Let's throw this at him.
Black nine, hut!
[Announced
first and ten. And it's Isaac Bruce.
Here's the down. Right there, Kurt.
Good call, good call!
[Announcer] Warner, under pressure,
dances out of the pocket and has hakim.
[Cheenng]
[Announcer] Look at that composure
from Kurt Warner.
- First down!
- He's hot.
Break!
Run it, run it, run it, run it,
run it, run it, run it.
Two. White 20.
White 20, hut!
[Announced
Warner, the corner the end zone.
Roland Williams... touchdown.
- [Crowd cheering]
- Whoo!
Yes! Yeah!
[Announced
and Kurt Warner, six of ten, 74 yards,
throws his first NFL touchdown.
See that? I taught him that.
Come on, 1-3, show me something.
Look at that handsome face.
[Announced
over at their own 30-yard line.
Play-action, Warner, sets up deep.
Fires to the sideline.
Isaac Bruce makes the catch.
Whoo! [Chuckles]
[Grunting]
[Announcer] Once again, good enough for...
- Oh, yeah!
- [Cheering]
- Here, here. Right, right, right, right.
- Three, hut!
[Chuckling] Look, look,
look at ray Lewis chasing his tail.
Switch, switch, switch, switch it. No.
Abort, abort, abort!
- Oh, you're gonna love this.
- Blue, 20, hut!
[Announcer] Shovel pass. Hakim.
When was the last time you saw
a shovel pass
to a wide receiver like that?
This kid can play!
Three-fifty! Three-fifty, hut!
[Announced
Warner again, in the end zone.
Touchdown! Isaac Bruce!
Twenty yards.
[Yells]
What a show! What a show!
[Announcer 2] Wow, I have never been
so happy to be proven so wrong.
I mean, you're watching a star being born.
This is a day that you will not forget.
[Announcer 3] Ravens falling
apart offensively right now, folks.
Wow.
[Hudnutt] Come on. Pump fake. Uh.
- [Announcer] Intercepted! What a catch!
- [Cheering]
Huge. Running down the clock,
there's only four and a half minutes
left in this game.
Four more minutes, baby.
I don't want this game to end, gentlemen.
Hey, left, pro-split, 50-f,
follow on one, ready!
[Announcer] Kurt Warner.
And he throws.
Marshall faulk out of the backfield
and there he goes.
Look at this. Making people miss,
inside the 21 -yard line.
- All right. All right.
- We got 'em on the ropes!
We're gonna punch this in right now.
Left, close spread, x-laser.
On one. Ready?
[Announcer] And Kurt Warner,
he's confident.
Because he certainly
has something to prove.
Perfect.
- [Crowd cheering]
- [Announcer] Great catch!
Touchdown!
The rookie! Bam!
And what a job
by that young man there.
Kurt Warner is like magic Johnson today.
Look at all the assists.
He got it done.
[Announcer] He's partying right now.
[Crowd chanting]
Warner! Warner! Warner! Warner! Warner!
[Announcer] Dick vermeil,
the old coach, has to smile after this one
because they're happy in St. Louis.
And that should do it.
One more kneel down by the rams,
and the first one is in the books.
- Oh, my gosh.
- [Whistle blows]
["Change of time" by Josh ritter playing]
Blue, 80, hut!
Thank you.
[Soft chuckle]
[Crowd cheering]
Look at him. You saw him!
That's what I'm talkin' 'bout!
That's my guy!
We did it! We did it.
Man, you keep that game ball.
You earned it.
- I will.
- Kurt!
Kurt. Kurt. Hey.
Good game, bro.
Hey, that means a heck of a lot
comin' from you.
- No problem.
- That really does.
Brenda!
Great game! Great game, boys.
[Chuckles]
Well done.
It was a beautiful thing to watch.
- Well done. Well done.
- Thank you for believing in me, coach.
Thank you. Brenda!
Hey! Baby. Hey.
Hey, I don't know where we go from here,
I don't know what comes next.
But this?
We did this.
We did this together.
- I love you.
- I love you, too. We did it!
Black 80!
[Announcer 1] Kurt Warner has brought hope
back to St. Louis.
[Announcer 2] The first quarterback
in the history of the NFL
to throw three touchdown passes
in each of his first three starts.
[Announcer3]
Here they come again. Warner...
Forget ringling brothers.
The rams are the greatest show on earth.
[Al Michaels]
Kurt Warner, out of the arena league,
as a backup when the season began,
became the league's mvp.
A phenomenal and unbelievable story.
[Announcer 4] We should remember,
this guy here, he was bagging groceries
at the hy-vee five years ago.
So, he goes from
the hy-vee to the mvp.
[Announcer 5] The best human-interest
story in sports in years.
[Announcer 6] All aboard, St. Louis.
This train is bound for Atlanta.
[Crowd cheering]
[Dick] You couldn't ask
for a better script.
Let's go win this thing right now,
let's win it right now. Come on!
[Announcer7]
The mvp of the league, Kurt Warner,
comes into a situation
that every kid dreams of, al.
Two minutes to go in the super bowl,
your team is tied.
I can't tell you how many times
I relived this as a kid.
["Change of time" playing]
[Crowd cheering]
[Al Michaels] Going deep downfield,
adjusting for it is Isaac Bruce.
And Isaac Bruce
threads his way for a touchdown!
Seventy-three yards.
[Announcer 7] Well, you couldn't have
written a better script
for the mvp of the league.
He throws a beautiful pass
in the face of pressure.
[Al Michaels]
And the rams have won the super bowl.
[Man] Go live! The game is over.
The game is over.
["Change of time" playing]
[Announced
Kurt Warner, first things first.
Five years ago, you were
stocking supermarket shelves in Iowa.
Now, you're a super bowl champion,
an NFL mvp, a super bowl mvp.
What message does it send to people?
I thank all the players, all the coaches,
my family, everybody for believin' in me,
and, uh, I gotta give the praise and glory
to my lord and savior up above.
And we 're world champions!
How about them rams?
[Crowd cheering]
[No audible dialogue]
[Mouthing] Thank you, Jesus.
["Love changes everything" by Vince Gill
featuring Mickey guyton playing]
- [Brenda] Zachary!
-
It's not a complete circle
because this is open.
- See, it's a big hook.
- Yeah. [Chuckles]
It starts here and then it comes around.
So that is a heart.
[Zack] It's a heart.